1. Parliament has passed a new law, which states that village communities shall be responsible for protection of biodiversity in the forest. The law also gives village communities the right to convert forest villages into revenue villages, allowing construction, sale and commercial activity.



2. The editor of a popular news channel was fired for tweeting about the presence of hate speech on TV news. The management claimed it violated their internal rule against commenting on the channel's affairs. The editor did not explicitly name any specific channel.



3. State government has planned to make space for the extension of an oil refinery. It has allocated adjoining government-owned land for this, evicting slum dwellers who had been staying there for the last 3 years. Government says they will be rehabilitated.



4. City metro authorities plan to tunnel under a Parsi Fire temple. Entrance to the temple will be restricted during the construction period. Government has offered to relocate the temple and pay for its reconstruction.



5. Based on complaints of nuisance by traders, street vendors in an old neighbourhood have been evicted by the City Development Authority. The area will now be used for widening its roads.



6. The state government has mandated an increase in the minimum wages to workers across all skill levels. Soon after this increase, garment factory owners have let go of workers to keep costs down, leading to mass lay-offs and retentions only through temporary contracts. The workers are protesting on the streets.



7. A TV news channel recently conducted a 'sting operation' on a senior government official. The report uncovered their role in a financial scam concerning taxpayer money, following which they were fired from service. A commission has been set up to investigate fraud by any other officials in the ministry. Soon after that, compromising pictures of the official and her husband in their home were leaked through various online media. The MIB has ordered the channel's license to be revoked stating privacy violations are unconstitutional.



8. Due to poor air quality levels across North India, the Supreme Court has placed a countrywide ban on all firecrackers ahead of Diwali, a religious festival that is usually celebrated with fireworks. Multiple protests are being staged in different states as the government hesitates on implementing the move.



9. One state government has created Working Holiday Zones, areas in which all manufacturing establishments will be exempted from implementing wage-related laws for a three-year period. They will be required to constitute committees to deal with complaints of sexual harassment and other grievances related to non-wage benefits. Workers across the state have gone on strike in response to the move.



10. A government order requires all news media outlets with less than 50 exclusive reporters to get their content vetted by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting before publication. Those not complying will face prosecution, including personal liability. Journalists and media houses claim the move interferes with the freedom of the press and threaten to cease publication entirely.



11. Leaders of the ruling party have introduced a Constitution Amendment Bill in Parliament to prohibit inter-religious conversions. Recently, newspapers have reported a number of incidents concerning the conversion of people belonging to the majority religion.



12. The Central Government has amended the National Building Code to mandate gender neutral bathrooms in all upcoming public and private establishments. It has notified all metropolitan development authorities to adopt this mandate with immediate effect in granting building permissions.



13 ... 49


In a Labour Organisation survey it was discovered that women in India spend nine times more than men doing unpaid household work. The State is concerned about the situation and wants these women to be paid salaries to avoid gender disparities as such.



The Parliament recently passed the Transgender's Act which gives the right of self-identification to the citizens and for minors the parents will have to make the application on their behalf.



The South Asian games are to be hosted in India and the Sports Association has published guidelines that permits participation of  Transgender Women in Women's category. Indian Government claims that allowing transgender women in Women's Sports will erode the integrity of female sport and the movement of women's rights and wants to withdraw as a host from the competition.



The National Council of Education wants to abolish the system of same gender schools across the country



To make educational institutions more inclusive towards LGBTQ+ Community, Council of Education wants to implement gender neutral uniforms and washrooms in educational institutions. It also wants to circulate a manual explaining about different sexualities and genders to sensitise the students and teachers.



In the 75 years of the establishment of the Nation's Army, this is the first time the defence minister has announced that the Army has finally decided to give approval to hire women in it's combat forces. 



The Parliament wants to introduce a Bill that will grant equal Paternity leave to men as it is for the women.



"The Scientists contend that the greater risks of crop disease with changing climatic conditions requires an urgent diversification of crops, without which there lies an increased risk of food security and its assymmetric impacts.

Support the Scientists in calling for complete implementation of the given mandate at the earliest."




The country, on being designated as a Core Heatwave Zone, enacts a Heat Resilience Roadmap, that identifies the causes and effects of heatwaves in the state and creates a committee comprising of industry leaders and scientists to develop solutions to the impending challenge



The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare proposes a local educational program for farmers to make them aware of the issue of climate change, and to do so calls for proposals from experts on the content of such program. 



After numerous calls from the global community and the citizens, India has signed and ratified the 'Global Protection Agreement', whereby India recognizing the risks of climate change vows to direct 2.5% of its annual budget to reducing the likelihood, or mitigating the occurrence of climate change.



The Draft Mumbai Climate Action Plan proposes the fortification and relocation of houses in certain notified areas, that have been identified to be at risk given rising sea levels in the future. Notably, such notified areas ignore the residential slums  of Local Dalit Populations, despite them being located adjacent to the  the coast.



A Gram Panchayat in Rajasthan has issued a notification that in light of the fact that girl students in the village have the lowest examination pass rates among all villages, girl students are required to have a minimum attendance of 90% so as to be allowed to sit for the examination.



The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, to aid in meeting Climate Change Targets, has proposed the creation of a windmill farm. The forests where the windmill  proposed will be established  is only source of employment for several tribes, and the construction of such a farm would involve the cutting down of 10,000 trees



The Refugee Convention has been amended to include Climate Refugees, and requires member nations to take a certain number of climate refugees from neighbouring small island developing states, and provide them with certain land rights. Due to a sudden rise in sea levels, an influx of climate refugees have illegally entered India. India, continues to not be a part of the Refugee Convention, citing local geopolitical issues and limited resources to sustain its own populations.



The  Union territories of Delhi  brings forward a claim against the Supreme court  of India, that would hold accountable all states and UTs  in proportion to their current GHG emissions, for the food and habitat  related losses that occur in the country due to climate change. The UT of Delhi faces worst air pollution crisis every year, smog and fog and heat waves are faced by its residents though they contribute little to the crisis.



Leaders of the ruling party have introduced a Constitution Amendment Bill in Parliament to prohibit inter-religious conversions. Recently, newspapers have reported a number of incidents concerning the conversion of people belonging to the majority religion.



The State Government wants to promote eco-tourism in Balkapram. The new strategies of accessibility and environment conservation include the construction of a 4-lane highway to Balkapram and a 10 per cent tourism cess on all tourism-related businesses.



The High Court passed an order to retrieve and rehabilitate 350 acres of wildlife land. Following these orders, the Forest Department has razed the kachcha homes in the city belonging to a nomadic pastoral community on the ground of encroachment and banned grazing and human access in the forest.



The Food Corporation of India has legalised and passed an approval order to cultivate all variants of poppy seeds in the state.



According to the new provisions of the Food Safety Act, all food business operators including the street food vendors have to be registered and licensed. To ensure unadulterated and safe food license process involves all food operators have to buy raw material from only licensed and registered manufacturers within the state.



As per the new modifications of the Development Control rule, the owners of Sick Industries over 50 acres of land are mandated to submit 33 percent of the land to the local development corporation when sold. The land acquired will be compensated through nominal prices.



 The State Governor declared their assent to the State Employment for Local Candidates Bill, which provides a 70% quota for State locals in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. 



UN Labour Organization introduced a new standard for all developing countries to implement and provide an app - Labour Inspection System Application (LISA) to the countries' workplace inspectors. The app can track and monitor the statuses of the inspections as and when they occur on-site. The Indian Government decided not to ratify the standard.



Local City Government has launched a drive to air conditionize all the city bus stands, metro stations, and closed city markets in phases. The drive was launched to manage and battle the effects of 40+ celcius degrees. The State Power Grid has ensured subsidised rates for the energy consumption. 



The State Commissioner of Labour and Employment modified Industrial Codes, it now says, Industry Employers should seek Government’s permission only when they are dismissing more than 300 people. Industrial establishments with 20+ workers must have an in-house “Grievance Redressal Committee” for individual grievances related to the termination of services. 



State Occupational Workers Welfare Board has created a Silicosis Grant Disbursement Portal that enables stone-carving workers to claim compensation amount of 5 Lakh upon the diagnosis of the disease. The stone carvers are supposed to register based on self-declaration and Aadhaar is a mandatory criterion.



Several states across the country have already instituted or are in the process of  instituting anti-conversion laws that penalise "forced" conversions. "Forced" could  mean the allurement or inducement of any individual through financial means as  well. This has prompted leaders from minority religions like Gutok and Molianism to  come out in protest as they consider such laws as being restrictive of their right to freely propagate their religion."



The inclusion of passages from diverse religious texts in the curriculum of government-funded schools has triggered a debate regarding the place of religion in modern education. Some argue that religion is an essential means to ensure the moral growth of students while others believe that religion should be completely  divorced from an essentially secular activity like education



Yerop University, an institute initially established and managed by members of the minority religion Yeroplip was brought under the supervision of the Central Govt. by the Yerop University Act, 1956. There has been a fervent demand by the Yeroplian community for the institution to be declared a minority institution under A. 30  of the Constitution ever since. Over the past 50 years, the institute has been stuck in limbo, with its minority character being asserted and revoked at different times. As it  stands, the university has been declared to not be a minority institute.



Minority educational institutes across the country like Pyter University, Tolion College etc. have come together to protest the imposition of nationwide, standardised  admission procedures which put them on par with non-minority institutes in this regard. They argue that such demands are violative of their rights to administer their institutes  as they deem fit in pursuance of protecting their communities' culture.



The Sinists, a religious sect in the state of Aytol have appealed to the local police to allow them to conduct public rituals at midnight on every full moon night in the month involving at least 2 hours of loud monastic chanting. They point to their holy book, the Sinorin, which prescribes the same. The police have refused to grant permission citing public nuisance, and law and order issues. The Sinists argue that they should be allowed to conduct their rituals as it is an essential practice of their belief.



The Hupian government has through legislation assumed the administrative duties of the Onpara temple, citing mounting revenue loss and general maladministration by the erstwhile management. The management in turn argues that the administration of the temple is a fundamental right of the Onparian community and cannot be taken away by the Government.



The State of Cedarat plans to convert existing religious educational institutes funded by the government into "regular" schools. The education minister stated that the state is supposed to be secular and cannot allow any sort of religious education in schools funded by them. The management of these institutions contends that there isn't any specific religious education being imparted by them,rather they only teach certain  languages that are commonly associated with particular religions. Any attempt by the state government to shut them down is violative of their constitutional rights they argue



The country of Terran seeks to amend its citizenship law so as to allow for illegal migrants belonging to the religion of Zena from certain neighbouring countries to have a path to prospective citizenship. This amendment would exclude illegal migrants from every other major religion in the area from claiming the same benefits. The stated aim of this law is to help people who have been subjected to religious persecution in their countries of origin. Protests have erupted across the country citing that the amended law arbitrarily discriminates against people on the basis of religion and is thus unconstitutional.



A member of parliament from the state of Framila has gone on record telling members of his constituency to stop purchasing groceries and other items of daily use from members of the Desogh religion. This statement follows reports that several thousandDesoghians who travelled on a pilgrimage last month have taken ill after returning to their homes across the country. Desoghian leaders have called for the government to issue an official rejection of the MP's statements as they deem them to be fundamentally discriminatory, which has adversely affected their livelihoods



The entry of people belonging to marginalised communities into a temple in Nerilo has been barred for a very long time. These people have argued that this ban on entry is violative of their fundamental right to equality while the management of the religious institution contends that the decision to ban such people is based on a cultural practice of theirs that has been in place for several hundred years and is thus protected as being an essential practice.
















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































